React DevCamp Handbook
                                 React DevCamp

Overview

Welcome, aspiring React developers! According to Stack Overflow's 2023 survey, React is the most popular enterprise-grade
web technology in the world -- which makes it an invaluable tool to have on your toolbelt! This DevCamp is aimed at
sharpening your skills, expanding your understanding, and empowering you to create captivating and functional React web
applications. Over the next few weeks, you'll have the chance to apply fundamental React concepts and techniques to real-
world scenarios, gaining practical experience that will kickstart your journey as a React developer.

Duration                         Prerequisites                Technical Requirements
À 8 Weeks                                                     À NodeJS and NPM
                                 À JavaScript Basics          À VS Code or WebStorm
                                 À NodeJS Basics              À Git

Concepts Covered                 À React State & Hooks        À Custom React Hooks
                                 À React Routing              À React Context
À React Basics                   À React Forms                À Building React For Production
À React Project Scaffolding      À React Component Libraries  À React Unit Testing
À React Code Quality & Linting
À React Components & Props

Timeline                         Milestone 2                  Milestone 3

              Milestone 1          Login Page                   Home Page
                                                                Guest Login
                  Project Setup
                   Product Page

 Milestone 6                         Milestone 5                Milestone 4

   Add to Cart                      User Registration         Know Your Customer
Data Persistence                         Analytics             Document Storage

 Milestone 7                         Milestone 8

      Sharing                          App Flavours
  Deep Linking                   Building for Production
                              Getting Started

Setting up your development environment

Before we dive into the exciting world of React development, let's ensure your development environment is set up correctly. Follow these
steps to get everything in order:

1. Install NodeJS

React uses NodeJS to build and bundle its JavaScript runtime code. Please download the latest LTS version of NodeJS here. Installing NodeJS
will also install NPM (Node Package Manger), which React (and all NodeJS projects) uses to manage its dependencies.
You can verify that NodeJS and NPM have installed correctly by running the following commands from any terminal.
À node -v
À npm -v
If NodeJS and NPM are correctly installed, these commands should list the installed versions, respectively:

If you receive an error stating that either NodeJS or NPM is not an internal or external command, make sure that NodeJS and NPM have been
added to your system path variable. This should be done for you automatically during the installation process, but in case this did not happen
you can follow this guide.

2. Install IDE

For JavaScript and TypeScript development, WebStorm and VS Code both offer great development experiences. WebStorm is paid-for, but
already comes bundled with all the necessary React development tools out of the box. WebStorm does have a trial period if you'd like to try it
out for free. VS Code is free but requires you to find and install your own framework related plugins. Its out-of-box React development
experience is not great, but you can reach out to the Entelect #react slack channel to ask for some recommended React plugins to make your
experience better.
WebStorm is built by JetBrains, so if you're used to their IDEs (such as IntelliJ and Rider), it will give you a more familiar development
experience. VS Code is built by Microsoft, so if you're familiar with Microsoft Visual Studio, VS Code will be the more familiar option.

3. Set up Git

We'll be using Git for version control. If you don't have Git installed, follow the instructions on the official Git website to do so. Both WebStorm
and VS Code have built-in Git integrations, which greatly improve your development experience; but you're welcome to use a different Git GUI
tool if you prefer.

Next Steps

You should now be equipped with the essential tools and resources needed for the React DevCamp. Let's dive right in!
This guide is organised into weekly deliverables, each focussing React-specific development concepts and tasks. Start with Milestone 1 and
progress through each week sequentially.
You'll find more details on the next page.

Need Help?

If you encounter any challenges or have questions, reach out to your Team Lead! Join the DevCamp Teams channel, where you connect with
fellow engineers for support.
Now, let the coding adventure begin! Happy coding and enjoy the journey of becoming a React developer.
                Milestone Breakdown

Milestone 1     Milestone 1

 Project Setup  Deliverables
 Product Page
                À Pick A React Flavour
                When using React on an enterprise-grade system, you'll more than likely use one of
                React's recommended frameworks such as NextJS, Remix, Gatsby, or Expo (for
                native apps). However, if your main goal is to learn the core principles of React, it is
                recommended to use React without a framework. Once you understand React, its
                frameworks are very easy to pick up. You can learn more about React and its
                frameworks here.
                For this DevCamp, we'll be using Vite to scaffold our frameworkless React project
                for us. You can use either JavaScript or TypeScript with React. We recommend
                sticking with JavaScript to focus on the React learnings, but if you are experienced
                with TypeScript, you're welcome to use it. Have a look at Vite's scaffolding
                documentation to see how you can set up a project using either the react or
                react-ts templates.

                À Project Setup
                Create a brand-new frameworkless React project and push it to your Git repository.
                Give the project any name; make it creative if you'd like! (Refer to Appendix A to see
                what the app is about for inspiration).

                À Implement First Screen
                Build the product info page according to the designs and use it as your initial screen
                (the Figma design will state that it's for Android; however, you can build a mobile-
                first web-app version of these designs).

                Resources

                À BRS requirement (Appendix A)
                US4 ¡ View products

                À Designs
                Figma  Ready for Development  Home  Product Page

                Useful Links                   2. Learn React
                                               À Describing the UI
                1. Getting Started with React  À Adding Interactivity
                À Quick Start                  À Managing State
                À Tutorial: Tic-Tac-Toe
                À Thinking in React                 À Stop before "Extracting State
                                                         Logic into a Reducer" subsection
                3. React Hooks
                À useState                     4. Scaffolding React
                À useEffect                    À Scaffolding Your First Project
                                               À Editor Setup (ESLint + Prettier)
                                               À React Developer Tools
              Milestone Breakdown

Milestone 2   Milestone 2

  Login Page  Deliverables

              À Component Library
              When it comes to reusable components such as buttons, inputs, cards, etc; there's
              no need to reinvent the wheel. There are a ton of fantastic component and styling
              libraries out there for React, and you're welcome to try some of them out. Our
              recommendations are listed under the Useful Links section.

              À Form Library
              Just as with reusable components, there's no need to build form logic from scratch.
              There are many feature-rich form libraries for React, which you're welcome to use on
              your project. Our recommendations are listed under the Useful Links section.

              À Routing
              Since we'll be building more pages soon, we'll need a routing library for our
              application. React Router is a well-tested and mature routing library for React, which
              we'll be using it to facilitate routing within our applications.

              À Login Page
              Build a functional, user-friendly, and secure Login page. Ensure you use the
              provided auth service.

              Resources

              À BRS Requirements & Service (Appendix A)
              US1 ¡ Log in
              8.1 Authentication Service

              À Designs
              Figma  Ready for Development  Log in  Login Flow

              Useful Links             Form Libraries
                                       À Controlled And Uncontrolled
              Component Libraries
              À Tailwind CSS                Components
              À React Semantic UI      À React Hook Form (recommended)
              À React Flowbite         À Formik

              Routing Library          Request Libraries
              À React Router Tutorial  À Axios (simpler, not React specific)
                                       À React Query (more powerful)
               Milestone Breakdown

Milestone 3    Milestone 3

  Home Page    Deliverables
  Guest Login
               À Custom Hooks
               With React, it is best practice to reuse components to compose your application.
               You'll also find it helpful to make your application/business logic reusable. In many
               cases, it make sense to separate your render-logic from your business/application-
               logic. To do this, React allows you to create custom hooks. See the Useful Links
               section for more information on this.

               À Home Page
               Build the Home page to display available products to the user. Ensure you cater for
               loading and error states for your screens. Use the provided Catalogue service.

               À Guest Login
               Allow anyone to access the app as a guest. Only certain products are available; and
               some functionality is blocked. Ensure you look over the designs and BRS to
               understand the different login views.

               Resources

               À BRS Requirement & Service (Appendix A)
               US4 ¡ View Products
               9.1.1 Product Catalogue

               À Designs
               Figma  Ready for Development  Home  Guest Flow

               Useful Links          Advanced State Management
                                     À React Context
               Advanced React Hooks  À You probably don't need Redux
               À useCallback
               À useMemo
               À Custom Hooks

               React Hook Libraries
               À React Use
                    Milestone Breakdown

                    Milestone 4

                    Deliverables

                    À Know Your Customer (KYC)
                    Implement the KYC flow where the user must upload proof of residence and a selfie.
                    Allow the user to take a photo or select a file.

                    À Document Storage
                    Use Firebase to store the uploaded documents.

   Milestone 4      Resources

Know Your Customer  À BRS Requirement
 Document Storage   US7 ¡ Do Customer Checks

                    À Designs
                    Figma  Ready for Development  Registration  KYC Flows

                    Useful Links             File Picker Libraries
                                             À Use File Picker
                    Unit Testing React       À Upload Widget React
                    À Jest
                    À React Testing Library  Webcam Library
                                             À React Webcam
                    Firebase
                    À Firebase For Web
                   Milestone Breakdown

 Milestone 5       Milestone 5

User Registration  Deliverables
     Analytics
                   À User Registration
                   Build a user registration flow with input validation. Include the completed KYC flow
                   as a step.
                   À Analytics
                   Use Firebase to add analytics to the app. Track when a user drops out of registration.

                   Resources

                   À BRS Requirements & Service
                   US2 ¡ Create Profile
                   8.6.3 Register Customer

                   À Designs

                   Figma  Ready for Development  Registration  Registration Flow

                   Useful Links
                   Firebase

                   À Firebase Analytics For Web
                  Milestone Breakdown

                  Milestone 6

                  Deliverables

                  À Add to Cart
                  Allow the user to add items to their cart and check out. Users need to be logged in to
                  complete the process.

                  À Data Persistence
                  When a user adds items to their cart, those items should be there after closing and
                  reopening the website.

Milestone 6       Resources

   Add to Cart    À BRS Requirement
Data Persistence  US8 ¡ Generate Contract

                  À Designs
                  Figma  Ready for Development  Checkout

                  Useful Links              React Storage Libraries

                  Data Persistence          À React Use
                  À Using storage in React       À Local Storage
                  À Browser Local Storage        À Session Storage
               Milestone Breakdown

               Milestone 7

               Deliverables

               À Sharing
               Allow the user to share products with friends over social media platforms. Ensure
               that a link back to the app is included. Optionally allow users to download a
               product's details as a PDF.

               À Deep Linking
               Open your app when a user clicks on a link on their device.

Milestone 7    Resources

    Sharing    À BRS Requirements
 Deep Linking  None

               À Designs
               Figma  Ready for Development  Home  Product Enhancement

               Useful Links         PDFs with React
                                    À React PDF
               Deep Linking
               À React Router
                           Milestone Breakdown

                           Milestone 8

                           Deliverables

                           À App Environment Variants
                           Allow the app to be built for multiple environments. Change the colour scheme per
                           environment. Allow features to be disabled for certain environments.
                           À Building for Production
                           Optimise your web app for production. Implement best practices such as source-
                           map deletion, obfuscation, minification/uglification, and tree-shaking to improve the
                           security of your production app.

                           Resources

                           À BRS Requirement
                           None
                           À Designs
                           Figma  Colours

     Milestone 8           Useful Links          Building for Production
                                                 À Vite Production Building
App Environment Variants   Env Variables         À Vite Build Options
  Building for Production  À Vite Env Variables  À Vite Obfuscator
                                   Additional Resources

Learn React                        React State & Hooks

À Quick Start                      À useState
À Tutorial: Tic-Tac-Toe            À useEffect
À Thinking in React                À useCallback
À Describing the UI                À useMemo
À Adding Interactivity             À Custom Hooks
À Managing State                   À React Context

Useful React Libraries             React Testing

À Component Libraries:             À React Testing Library
          À Tailwind CSS           À Jest
          À React Semantic UI
          À React Flowbite         Firebase

À Form Libraries:                  À Firebase For Web
          À React Hook Form        À Firebase Analytics For Web
          À Formik
                                   Data Persistence
À Routing Library:
          À React Router Tutorial  À Using Local and Session storage in React
                                   À Browser Local Storage
À Request Libraries:
          À Axios
          À React Query

À File Picker Libraries:
          À Use File Picker
          À Upload Widget React

À PDF Library:
          À React PDF

À Useful Hook Library:
          À React Use

Vite

À Scaffolding Your First Project
À Env Variables
À Production Building
À Build Options
À Obfuscator
